---
layout: post
title: Published articles
---

<p class="message">
<b>Robust phase-based decoding for absolute (X,Y,Θ) positioning by vision</b> 
</p>
A. N. André, P. Sandoz, B. Mauzé, M. Jacquot and G. J. Laurent 

in IEEE Transactions on Instrumentations and Measurement

doi : <a href="https://doi.org/10.1109/TIM.2020.3009353">10.1109/TIM.2020.3009353</a>

keywords : computer vision, large range-to-resolution ratio, phase encoding, positioning, robustness

Preprint is available <a href= "https://antoineandre.github.io/category/TIM_HAL.pdf">here.</a>

Computer vision is a convenient non-contact tool for position control and thus constitutes an attractive multidirectional alternative to widely used single-direction sensors. However, to meet actual industry requirements, vision-based measurement methods must be sufficiently robust to comply with industrial environments. This paper explores the robustness of an in-plane position measurement method based on a pseudoperiodic pattern and allowing a 108 range-to-resolution ratio in displacement and a 1 μrad angular resolution over 2π rad. The paper details how the pattern phase can be used to maintain reliable measurements despite defocus, discrepancies in local contrast, non-uniform illuminations or occlusions. Proposed method can be implemented at different size scales with unique capabilities combining high resolution, large measurement range and robustness to diverse kinds of disturbances.


<p class="message">
<b>Sensing One Nanometer over Ten Centimeters: A Micro-Encoded Target for Visual In-Plane Position Measurement</b> 
</p>
A. N. Andre, P. Sandoz, B. Mauze, M. Jacquot and G. J. Laurent, 

in IEEE/ASME Transactions on Mechatronics.

doi: <a href="https://doi.org/10.1109/TMECH.2020.2965211">10.1109/TMECH.2020.2965211</a>

keywords: Nano-positioning; Position encoding; Pseudorandom binary sequences; Phase measurements; Computer vision

Preprint is available <a href= "https://antoineandre.github.io/category/tmech_hal.pdf">here.</a>

At the nanoscale, accurate control and position sensing are recurrent issues conditioning advances of technologies and instruments in diverse fields of application. Recent advances were reported that combine optical microscopy and computer vision for non-contact and multi-axis position sensing of end-effectors with a high accuracy. This paper contributes to this domain by introducing a micro-encoded target aimed to high accurate (x,y,θ) measurements over an extended range. The micro-encoded target is designed to allow linear phase measurements, leading to high accuracy in position sensing, and unambiguous binary encoding leading to absolute position determination. In this way, ultimate performances and allowed measurement ranges are independent of each other and a current zone of observation can be registered with respect to the whole encoded area with an extra-large range-to-resolution ratio. Experiments reported in this paper demonstrate a precision below one nanometer in lateral position and of 4⋅10−6 rad. in rotation with an encoded target of more than 11×11 cm2 . The device demonstrated can be either inserted into experimental setups to allow accurate position control or used to calibrate in-plane displacements of one to three degrees of freedom actuators.
